feat: Add docs for third party OIDC providers (#1769)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/authentication/enterprise-connections/oidc/custom-provider.mdx

      title: "Add the Enhanced Authentication add-on to your Pro plan",
      link: "/pricing",
      icon: "plus-circle",
    },
    {
      title: "Enable email address as an identifier for your app",
      link: "/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#identifiers",
      icon: "key",
    },
  ]}
>
  - Use a custom OIDC provider to authenticate users with Enterprise SSO
</TutorialHero>

<Steps>
  ### Set up an Enterprise Connection in Clerk

  To create an Enterprise connection in Clerk:

  1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.
  1. Select **Add connection** and select **For specific domains**.
  1. Under **Third party**, select **OIDC**.
  1. Add the **Name** of the connection.
  1. Add the **Key** of the provider. This is the provider's unique identifier (cannot be changed after creation).
  1. Add the **Specific Domain** that you want to allow this connection for. This is the domain of the users you want to allow to sign in to your application.
  1. Select **Add connection**. You will be redirected to the connection's configuration page.

>   The next steps involve configuring both your Identity Provider (IdP) and Clerk. Keep both dashboards open as you'll need to reference them.

Author: The user decides it like the name!

>   The next steps involve configuring both your Identity Provider (IdP) and Clerk. Keep both dashboards open as you'll need to reference them.

Author: It's up to them to set something if they want to know from which connection each user was created!

  1. Select **Save**.

  ### Configure attribute mapping (optional)

  If your provider returns claims in a non-standard format, use the **Attribute Mapping** section on the connection's configuration page to adjust the mapping of Clerk's user properties to match the IdP's claim attributes. Important Clerk user properties include `email`, `firstName`, and `lastName`.

  > [!CAUTION]
  > OIDC Enterprise connections require the `email_verified` claim to verify email ownership. If the IdP doesn't return this claim, you can set its default value of `true`. However, ensure you fully trust the IdP to prevent exploits like [nOAuth](https://www.descope.com/blog/post/noauth).

  ### Allow additional identifiers (optional)

  User profile information is sourced from the IdP. To allow users to add new identifiers (e.g., email address or phone number) to their profiles:

  1. Navigate to the **Advanced** tab of the connection's configuration page.
  1. Enable **Allow additional identifiers**.
  1. Select **Save**.

  ### Enable the connection for Clerk

  To make the connection available for your users to authenticate with:

>   1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.
>   1. Select the OIDC connection.
>   1. Toggle on **Enable connection**.
>   1. Select **Save**.

Reviewer: they should already have the dashboard open, with the sso connections page.
we use this copy in other guides:

```suggestion
  To make the connection available for your users to authenticate with:

  1. Navigate back to the Clerk Dashboard where you should still have the connection's configuration page open. If not, navigate to the [**SSO connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page and select the connection.
  1. At the top of the page, toggle on **Enable connection** and select **Save**.
```

  1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.
  1. Select **Add connection** and select **For specific domains**.
  1. Under **Third party**, select **OpenID Connect (OIDC)**.
  1. Add the **Name** of the connection.
  1. Add the **Key** of the provider. This is the provider's unique identifier (cannot be changed after creation).
  1. Add the **Specific Domain** that you want to allow this connection for. This is the domain of the users you want to allow to sign in to your app.
  1. Select **Add connection**. You will be redirected to the connection's configuration page.

  ### Configure your IdP

  1. If necessary, create a new app in your IdP.

>   1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the connection's settings page.

Reviewer: they should already be there according to the last step in the previous step. so the copy before was correct

  1. Copy the **Authorized redirect URI**.
  1. Add the value to your IdP's whitelisted URLs.

  ### Set the Discovery Endpoint, Client ID, and Client Secret in Clerk

  Most IdPs provide a **Discovery Endpoint** to retrieve metadata about an OIDC provider. If your IdP doesn't offer this endpoint or if you need greater control over the setup process, select **Use Manual Configuration** in the **Identity Provider Configuration** section to manually configure the connection.

>   1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the connection's settings page.

Reviewer: You wouldn't get the client ID and client secret in the clerk dashboard. you would get those from your IdP and then paste them in the clerk dashboard. so i believe the copy before was correct

  1. Copy your application's **Discovery Endpoint**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret**.
  1. In the connection's settings page in the Clerk Dashboard, under **Identity Provider Configuration**, paste the values in their respective fields.
  1. Under **Scopes**, add the minimum required scopes based on the IdP's documentation if needed. Common OIDC scopes include `openid`, `email`, and `profile`.
  1. Select **Save**.

  ### Configure attribute mapping (optional)

>   Attribute mapping allows you to map the IdP's claims with Clerk's user properties such as the `email_verified`. OIDC Enterprise connections require the [`email_verified` claim](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#StandardClaims:~:text=Section%C2%A05.7.-,email_verified,-boolean) to verify email ownership. However, some IdPs, such as Microsoft Azure Active Directory, might not return this claim or use a non-standard format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Attribute mapping allows you to map the IdP's claims with Clerk's user properties. OIDC enterprise connections require the [`email_verified` claim](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#StandardClaims:~:text=Section%C2%A05.7.-,email_verified,-boolean) to verify email ownership. However, some IdPs, such as Microsoft Azure Active Directory, might not return this claim or use a non-standard format.
```

Author: Changed this section to be more similar to it's previous form https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/pull/1769/commits/07e1f1a0f8db3b9c07d2bee928f3d460e8da362c

It's not required for most users so I think keeping it brief is better to avoid confusion 🙂

  To enable attribute mapping:

>   1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the **Connection** tab of the connection's settings page.
>   1. In the **Attribute Mapping** section, under the **Email address verified** field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the connection's settings page in the Clerk Dashboard, under **Attribute Mapping**, for the **Email address verified* field:
```

>   - If the IdPs that provide the value, enter `email_verified`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If the IdP provides the value, enter `email_verified`.
```

>   - For IdPs that do not provide the value, enter `xms_edov`.

Reviewer: let's use the same syntax as the sentence before, and use a contraction!

```suggestion
  - If the IdP doesn't provide the value, enter `xms_edov`.
```

Author: If it's ok, I removed this part as it is to specific to Microsoft!

  1. Set **Default value** to **True**.
  1. Select **Save**.

  > [!WARNING]

>   > If the IdP doesn't return this claim, you can either leave the **Email address verified** field blank or set the **Default value** to `True`. This should only be done if you fully trust the IdP, as it can expose your app to [OAuth attacks](https://www.descope.com/blog/post/noauth).

Reviewer: this step mentions that the user should set the default value to true whether the idp returns the claim or not. but then this callout says the user should only do it if the idp **doesn't** return the claim. which is the correct case so we can update accordingly?

```suggestion
  > If the IdP doesn't return this claim, you can either leave the **Email address verified** field blank or set the **Default value** to **True**. This should only be done if you fully trust the IdP, as it can expose your app to [OAuth attacks](https://www.descope.com/blog/post/noauth).
```

Reviewer: yes, the way you've rewritten it makes a lot more sense!
